README.md, before:

<img align="right" width="auto" height="auto" src="https://www.elastic.co/static-res/images/elastic-logo-200.png">

# @elastic/elasticsearch

[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://standardjs.com/)  [![Build Status](https://clients-ci.elastic.co/job/elastic+elasticsearch-js+master/badge/icon)](https://clients-ci.elastic.co/job/elastic+elasticsearch-js+master/)  [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/elastic/elasticsearch-js/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/elastic/elasticsearch-js)  [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@elastic/elasticsearch.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@elastic/elasticsearch)

The official Node.js client for Elasticsearch.

## Features
- One-to-one mapping with REST API.
- Generalized, pluggable architecture.
- Configurable, automatic discovery of cluster nodes.
- Persistent, Keep-Alive connections.
- Load balancing (with pluggable selection strategy) across all available nodes.
- TypeScript support out of the box.

## Install
```
npm install @elastic/elasticsearch
```

### Compatibility
The library is compatible with all Elasticsearch versions since 5.x, but you should use the same major version of the Elasticsearch instance that you are using.
```
# Elasticsearch 7.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@7

# Elasticsearch 6.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@6

# Elasticsearch 5.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@5
```

## Usage
You can find the full documentation in the [docs](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-js/tree/master/docs) folder.
```js
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({ node: 'http://localhost:9200' })

// promise API
const result = await client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
})

// callback API
client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, (err, result) => {
  if (err) console.log(err)
})
```
The returned value of **every** API call is formed as follows:
```ts
{
  body: object | boolean
  statusCode: number
  headers: object
  warnings: [string]
  meta: object
}
```
### Client options
The client is designed to be easily configured as you see fit for your needs, following you can see all the possible options that you can use to configure it.
```ts
{
  // the Elasticsearch endpoint to use
  node: string | string[];
  // alias of above
  nodes: string | string[];
  // custom connection class
  Connection: typeof Connection;
  // custom connection pool class
  ConnectionPool: typeof ConnectionPool;
  // custom transport class
  Transport: typeof Transport;
  // custom serializer class
  Serializer: typeof Serializer;
  // max number of retries for each request
  maxRetries: number;
  // max request timeout for each request
  requestTimeout: number;
  // max ping timeout for each request
  pingTimeout: number;
  // perform a sniff operation every `n` milliseconds
  sniffInterval: number;
  // perform a sniff once the client is started
  sniffOnStart: boolean;
  // custom sniff endpoint, defaults `_nodes/_all/http`
  sniffEndpoint: string;
  // perform a sniff on connection fault
  sniffOnConnectionFault: boolean;
  // configurethe node resurrection strategy, default `ping`
  resurrectStrategy: 'ping' | 'optimistic' | 'none';
  // adds `accept-encoding` header to every request
  suggestCompression: boolean;
  // enable gzip request body compression
  compression: 'gzip';
  // ssl configuraton
  ssl: http.SecureContextOptions;
  // http agent options
  agent: http.AgentOptions;
  // filters which node not to use for a request
  nodeFilter: nodeFilterFn;
  // custom selection strategy, defaults `round-robin`
  nodeSelector: nodeSelectorFn | string;
}
```

### Request specific options
If needed you can pass request specific options in a second object:
```js
// promise API
const result = await client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, {
  ignore: [404],
  maxRetries: 3
})
```
The supported *request specific options* are:
```ts
{
  ignore: [number], // default `null`
  requestTimeout: number, // client default
  maxRetries: number, // default `5`
  asStream: boolean, // default `false`
  compression: string, // default `false`
  headers: object, // default `null`
  querystring: object // default `null`
}
```

## License

This software is licensed under the [Apache 2 license](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Added a note about the new client

README.md, after:

<img align="right" width="auto" height="auto" src="https://www.elastic.co/static-res/images/elastic-logo-200.png">

# @elastic/elasticsearch

[![js-standard-style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://standardjs.com/)  [![Build Status](https://clients-ci.elastic.co/job/elastic+elasticsearch-js+master/badge/icon)](https://clients-ci.elastic.co/job/elastic+elasticsearch-js+master/)  [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/elastic/elasticsearch-js/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/elastic/elasticsearch-js)  [![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@elastic/elasticsearch.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@elastic/elasticsearch)

---

**Note:** In the past months we have worked on the new Elasticsearch Node.js client, we will announce it soon!
If you want you can already try it by following the instructions below, while if you're going to use the legacy one or report an issue, please check out [elastic/elasticsearch-js-legacy](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-js-legacy).

---

The official Node.js client for Elasticsearch.

## Features
- One-to-one mapping with REST API.
- Generalized, pluggable architecture.
- Configurable, automatic discovery of cluster nodes.
- Persistent, Keep-Alive connections.
- Load balancing (with pluggable selection strategy) across all available nodes.
- TypeScript support out of the box.

## Install
```
npm install @elastic/elasticsearch
```

### Compatibility

---

**Warning:** currently on npm you will only find a beta release that works with Elasticsearch 7, we will add the support for Elasticsearch 5, 6, and 7 once we release the final version of this library.

---

The library is compatible with all Elasticsearch versions since 5.x, but you should use the same major version of the Elasticsearch instance that you are using.
```
# Elasticsearch 7.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@7

# Elasticsearch 6.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@6

# Elasticsearch 5.x
@elastic/elasticsearch@5
```

## Usage
You can find the full documentation in the [docs](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-js/tree/master/docs) folder.
```js
const { Client } = require('@elastic/elasticsearch')
const client = new Client({ node: 'http://localhost:9200' })

// promise API
const result = await client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
})

// callback API
client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, (err, result) => {
  if (err) console.log(err)
})
```
The returned value of **every** API call is formed as follows:
```ts
{
  body: object | boolean
  statusCode: number
  headers: object
  warnings: [string]
  meta: object
}
```
### Client options
The client is designed to be easily configured as you see fit for your needs, following you can see all the possible options that you can use to configure it.
```ts
{
  // the Elasticsearch endpoint to use
  node: string | string[];
  // alias of above
  nodes: string | string[];
  // custom connection class
  Connection: typeof Connection;
  // custom connection pool class
  ConnectionPool: typeof ConnectionPool;
  // custom transport class
  Transport: typeof Transport;
  // custom serializer class
  Serializer: typeof Serializer;
  // max number of retries for each request
  maxRetries: number;
  // max request timeout for each request
  requestTimeout: number;
  // max ping timeout for each request
  pingTimeout: number;
  // perform a sniff operation every `n` milliseconds
  sniffInterval: number;
  // perform a sniff once the client is started
  sniffOnStart: boolean;
  // custom sniff endpoint, defaults `_nodes/_all/http`
  sniffEndpoint: string;
  // perform a sniff on connection fault
  sniffOnConnectionFault: boolean;
  // configurethe node resurrection strategy, default `ping`
  resurrectStrategy: 'ping' | 'optimistic' | 'none';
  // adds `accept-encoding` header to every request
  suggestCompression: boolean;
  // enable gzip request body compression
  compression: 'gzip';
  // ssl configuraton
  ssl: http.SecureContextOptions;
  // http agent options
  agent: http.AgentOptions;
  // filters which node not to use for a request
  nodeFilter: nodeFilterFn;
  // custom selection strategy, defaults `round-robin`
  nodeSelector: nodeSelectorFn | string;
}
```

### Request specific options
If needed you can pass request specific options in a second object:
```js
// promise API
const result = await client.search({
  index: 'my-index',
  body: { foo: 'bar' }
}, {
  ignore: [404],
  maxRetries: 3
})
```
The supported *request specific options* are:
```ts
{
  ignore: [number], // default `null`
  requestTimeout: number, // client default
  maxRetries: number, // default `5`
  asStream: boolean, // default `false`
  compression: string, // default `false`
  headers: object, // default `null`
  querystring: object // default `null`
}
```

## License

This software is licensed under the [Apache 2 license](./LICENSE).
